# Testing Procedure

This document describes the various procedures that can be used to test the payload board by interacting with the installed raspberry pi. The raspberry pi should be setup and configured as described in the [New Image](newimage.md) document. In particular, this will configure the raspberry pi with the rpi-flight-software repository contents and set the raspberry pi to execute one of the setups automatically at bootup.

## Testing configuration: Payload board using WiFi for internet connection

The setup `satellite-gpio-ucam-test` is appropriate for this scenario. This setup presumes that the Raspberry Pi will connect to WiFi SSID `SilverSat` with password `silversat` in order to access the internet. This setup also assumes there is a uCAM III camera installed, and will either execute the photo or the tweet mode payload task at bootup depending on the status of the payload board STATES pins. Once the payload board is turned on by the avionics board, it will connect to the WiFi and should be able to be accessed using SSH (lookup with IP address it gets with whatever tools you have available). You should access the raspberry pi with username `pi` and password `silversat`. Once logged in via SSH you can monitor the payload tasks using typcal linux command-line tools. The `.startup.log` file in the `pi` user's home directory records any output generated by the primary startup script run at boot up.

In addition to the payload baord, this testing procedure requires an internet connected WiFi router or hotspot to make the internet available to the raspberry pi. Windows 11 has a convenient hotspot feature that will be used for this purpose below.

### Preparation for testing 

1. In Windows 11, under Settings, Network & Internet select "Mobile hotspot". Configure the hotspot to use the SSID "SilverSat",  password "silversat", and the "2.4GHz" band. Turn off "Power saving". Turn the hotspot to "on". Note that the Windows 11 computer must be connected to the internet, generally by its own WiFi connection. 

2. 





